hey everyone welcome back to the Chinese
sayings podcast laza Montgomery here
once again with yet another good one for
you this Chinese saying is a very
excellent pedigree coming from no less a
source than the sure g itself the
records of the grand historian so my
Chen's magnum opus and monument to his
father summit on today we will look at
the story behind zhi ming go dull as
usual story came from ancient times for
characters four syllables thrown
together with no apparent meaning and
say this one's buzz typical a chung you
as you could get g mean go dull here's
the molecular breakdown a gee that's a
chicken or a rooster mean it's the sound
or a cry from an animal bird and insect
g mean means the roosters crow and a go
is a dog and Dolph that means robber
sefer needs to steal something so G
Mingo doll rooster call dog thief hmm
that doesn't make much sense our story
today takes place during the time of
King joshing of Qin who reigned from 307
to 250 BC he he was the
great-grandfather of Qin Shi Huang the
first emperor in Chinese history CH
ensure Quang will declare himself
Emperor 30 years after the passing of
this king joshey on this story like
somebody Chung you was rooted in the
warring States Period that took place
during the second half of the Eastern
Joe it was a bloody period and
underneath the Yellow River Valley from
shun she to Shandong are buried relics
left over from the battlefields of that
era the chin state if you recall from
those China history podcast episodes 157
158 was by the time of this King Joe
shown about to take the fight to the
neighboring kingdoms of which there were
six major ones left so this king was
always on the lookout for men of talent
that he could entice to come to Chien
and become part of what was
possibly shaping up to be the winning
team one such man who caught the Kings I
was from the state of Qi anyone familiar
with shandong province though shandong
is the land of Qi and Liu Qi Liu Li and
hua Confucius came from the state of lu
and from this state of Qi came a famous
nobleman named Lord mung chung mung
chung Jin he was singled out as one of
the four most powerful aristocrats the
warring States Period so he was rather
well known by all the leaders of the
kingdoms and was a right-hand man to the
king of Qi and if you ask anyone already
familiar with mung chung jun they'll
tell you this guy had a hell of an
entourage Lord mung chung I guess he
couldn't say no to anyone because all
you practically had to do was knock on
his door you became one of his clients
these kinds of hangers-on are called
munca in chinese door guests so Lord
mung chung had a bit of a reputation
being kind generous and someone who
showed up for his friends and anyone
else who made it to his ever-expanding
inner circle it said he had as many as
3,000 house guests under his care and he
knew the details of everyone and when it
was their birthday or their sons manya
ceremony Lord Meng Chiao would be there
with a gift now the leaders of the other
states west of Qi all wish they had Lord
mung chung in their payroll but nobody
wanted a more than Qing Chun of Chien he
sent an emissary to go make an offer to
Lord Monck Chun to come work and chin
well long story short he accepted the
generous offer with his whole entire
entourage and a load of gifts he headed
west to the chin capital of Shenyang
mrs. near modern day she on king joshey
on warmly welcomed him and showed a
maximum respect Lord mung chung
presented the king with a gorgeous white
fox fur coat that just took the breath
away from the qin qing he was astounded
by its beauty and softness but the time
being the summer mods he told his staff
put it someplace for safekeeping until
you know November December came around
in no time at all qing-jao shank
promoted lord mung chung to be his prime
minister i could tell you the
long-serving court officials in Shenyang
didn't like that too much they weren't
happy at all that their King was showing
such favoritism to someone wasn't even
from chena and one of these officials
told the King how can you trust this guy
so much he's like the right-hand man to
the king of Qi how do you know he's
going to have the best interests of Qin
in mind other courtiers as well worked
on King jealous youngin after enough
lobbying they got him to reconsider but
King chose young asked what am I
supposed to do he's already here I
invited him won't that look bad if I
fired him suddenly should I should they
just send him back to chi his officials
told him on it's too late for that he
already knows too much they suggested to
kill him but qing-jao young maid figured
what are the other six kingdoms gonna
say when they hear that so he called for
Lord mung chung house arrest while he
tried to think of a solution so Lord
Monck Chong was kept locked up oh yeah
he was well treated qing-jao Chang's
brother Lord jingyang had once been a
diplomatic hostage of Qi and remembered
fondly how well Lord mung chung had
treated him so he went to him and
offered his assistance he kindly told
Lord mung chung that his best bet to get
out of a situation was to cozy up to y
ng the King's favorite concubine she was
the only one who could consistently sway
the Kings mind so Lord mung chung
arranged for an exquisite present of
white jade to be given to her but with
Lord Jin Young handed the gift eng on
behalf of Lord bong Chang she turned her
nose up at it and said if he wanted her
help he'd have to give her a white fox
fur coat like he gave the King Lord mung
chung said that it was a one-of-a-kind
gift and they had to kill a lot of rare
white foxes to get it but Lord jingyang
said it was his only way and shall
bonfire think of a way to satisfy yengi
and this request
one of his entourage told Lord mung
chung don't worry sir I'll disguise
myself as a dog and go steal the coat
from the coat room Lord munch I knew
this was undignified but considering the
desperate situation he was in and he
okayed the plan that night this person
disguised himself is a big dog and snuck
in through a hole into the room and
retrieved the white fox fur coat it was
duly presented to Genji and she pulled
through on her end of the bargain
convincing the King at his most
vulnerable after a drinking session to
Allah Lord mung chung to return to chi
and he agreed and all the permits papers
and documents were arranged for Lord
mung chung safe passage back to chi like
Ramses the second who came to his senses
after freeing the Hebrews qing-jao chun
had second thoughts about letting lord
mung chung go in order to soldiers to go
bring him back but just before Lord mung
chung passed through salman shah in
hunan right on the yellow river he came
to the Hun GU pass still there today and
having arrived too late in the evening
he found the city gates closed for the
night that Sheen rules called for the
gate only to be opened after the
Roosters let out their first
cockadoodledoo another member of the
entourage stepped forward and began
doing just that imitating a roosters
call must have been pretty good because
all the roosters in the area started
doing what came natural they were all
crowing like crazy then the gatekeeper
looked at his watch and said jeez
morning already so he opened the gates
and Lord mung chung his whole entourage
passed through safely and made a beeline
for shandong province by the time the
Qin soldiers arrived at the Haiku gate
it was already too great a distance
between them and Lord mung chung so they
gave up and turned back Lord mung chung
breathed a sigh of relief and said that
on this occasion he escaped from the
Tiger's mouth by way of G mean go doll
the call of the rooster and a dog thief
and ever since then someone who resorts
to sneaky means of getting something
done is described as G Mingo doll people
usually those without much if any talent
you who resort to various kinds of
tricks and who cheek to get what they
want are also said to be teaming go doll
so someone who isn't too clever and can
solve problems using their wits and who
must resort to dirty tricks are often
described with this Chung you g Mingo
dull so that is our Chung you for this
time on behalf of Joe way at our chun-li
research center providing some Turbo
Power to our production department this
is laszlo Montgomery beseeching you to
visit teacup top media if you're so
inclined China history podcast China
vintage our this Chinese sayings podcast
all available for you to go check it out
thanks everyone think about joining me
next week would you for another fine
episode of the Chinese sayings podcast